okay this is kind of a part two of
working on rebuilding a motor this is a
blade motor from a general electric
electric mower is off the e 15 and so
far I took off I took the motor off the
deck I took off the cap and the cow
mutator the bearing on this end looked
good but i think the trouble was up in
this end however this little hub holds
the blade on and I couldn't get that off
so I talked to a couple of guys and they
said use a bearing separator so I got
this little doohickey rented this from
the hardware store put this on around
under that hub there and then used a
puller to go on the top to push down on
a 5 16 s bolt right down the middle to
pull this hub up and lo and behold it
actually worked so i guess a PB Blaster
at every day for the last week was a
good thing so now I've got that bit off
and I should be able to start pulling
this thing apart ok there's the armature
once i got that hub off the end here i
was able to just very gently tap the
shaft down with the the whole thing kind
of held over the edge of the workbench
here and then i was able to get the
armature out and sure enough commutator
doesn't look bad bearing here is fine
but down on the bottom end that bearing
is pretty much seized up its little
rusty cover rusted right off so i'm
going to have to pull this bearing off
replace it clean up the shaft clean this
all up maybe a polish up the commutator
but that right there that's obviously
the reason why this was not spinning
freely so next step replace that bearing
I don't have that bearing in front of me
so you'll have to wait till next time
and I bet this little piece here came
off from somewhere down there and got in
here so time to fix that up
okay it's been another 10 minutes since
that last section of video and sure
enough I was able to get that bearing
off use a little a good ol PB blaster
and I still have that bearing splitter
and puller so this big don't roll away
it's bad don't do that with armatures
that's it's not a good thing to do with
her matures so I'm the chef there's kind
of a little lip so when I put that
bearing puller on I closed it up but
tried to not catch that lip and then
this I was able to get to slowly slide
slide slide slide slide pop it off the
end no identification so I'll have to
take this to a bearing shop have the
measure it and find me a new one like
that and then use some Emery cloth clean
this up get a new bearing new square key
for the shaft up here and then I should
be able to put the whole thing back
together